# Overview

The goal of our analysis is to derive a tidy data set comprising the each variable’s mean and standard deviation associated with a study participant and the activities performed by that participant.   The tidyDataSet.txt is the result of analysis performed against data collected for the Human Activity Recognition Use Smartphones study.  The data set generated by this study and data set information can be found at http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones.   

The tidyDataSet.txt comprise 68 feature variables documenting the mean and standard deviation of each participant’s activiites.  The README.md file documents the steps executed to cleanse and transform the study data into the tidy data set.  

# Data Dictionary

Subject - Numeric code identifying a participant in the study.

Activity - Identifies the type of physical activity performed by the subject.

tBodyAcc.mean.X - The mean calculated on the body accelerator time domain signal on the X axis.

tBodyAcc.mean.Y - The mean calculated on the body accelerator time domain signal on the Y axis.

tBodyAcc.mean.Z - The mean calculated on the body accelerator time domain signal on the Z axis.

tGravityAcc.mean.X - The mean calculated on the gravity accelerator time domain signal on the X axis.

tGravityAcc.mean.Y - The mean calculated on the gravity accelerator time domain signal on the Y axis.

tGravityAcc.mean.Z - The mean calculated on the gravity accelerator time domain signal on the Z axis.

tBodyAccJerk.mean.X - The mean calculated on the body linear acceleration derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the X axis.

tBodyAccJerk.mean.Y - The mean calculated on the body linear acceleration derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the Y axis.

tBodyAccJerk.mean.Z - The mean calculated on the body linear acceleration derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the Z axis.

tBodyGyro.mean.X - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity time domain signal on the X axis.

tBodyGyro.mean.Y  - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity time domain signal on the Y axis.

tBodyGyro.mean.Z - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity time domain signal on the Z axis.

tBodyGyroJerk.mean.X - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the X axis.

tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Y - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the Y axis.

tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Z - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the Z axis.

fBodyAcc.mean.X - The mean calculated on the body accelerator which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the X axis.

fBodyAcc.mean.Y - The mean calculated on the body accelerator which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the Y axis.

fBodyAcc.mean.Z - The mean calculated on the body accelerator which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the Z axis.

fBodyAccJerk.mean.X - The mean calculated on the body linear acceleration which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the X axis.

fBodyAccJerk.mean.Y - The mean calculated on the body linear acceleration which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the Y axis.

fBodyAccJerk.mean.Z - The mean calculated on the body linear acceleration which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the Z axis.

fBodyGyro.mean.X - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal with application of the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT)  on the X axis.

fBodyGyro.mean.Y - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal with application of the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT)  on the Y axis.

fBodyGyro.mean.Z - The mean calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal with application of the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT)  on the Z axis.

tBodyAcc.std.X - The standard deviation calculated on the body accelerator time domain signal on the X axis.

tBodyAcc.std.Y - The standard deviation calculated on the body accelerator time domain signal on the Y axis.

tBodyAcc.std.Z - The standard deviation calculated on the body accelerator time domain signal on the Z axis.

tGravityAcc.std.X - The standard deviation calculated on the gravity accelerator time domain signal on the X axis.

tGravityAcc.std.Y - The standard deviation calculated on the gravity accelerator time domain signal on the Y axis.

tGravityAcc.std.Z - The standard deviation calculated on the gravity accelerator time domain signal on the Z axis.

tBodyAccJerk.std.X - The standard deviation calculated on the body linear acceleration derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the X axis.

tBodyAccJerk.std.Y - The standard deviation calculated on the body linear acceleration derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the Y axis.

tBodyAccJerk.std.Z - The standard deviation calculated on the body linear acceleration derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the Z axis.

tBodyGyro.std.X - The standard deviation calculated on the body angular velocity time domain signal on the X axis.

tBodyGyro.std.Y - The standard deviation calculated on the body angular velocity time domain signal on the Y axis.

tBodyGyro.std.Z - The standard deviation calculated on the body angular velocity time domain signal on the Z axis.

tBodyGyroJerk.std.X - The standard deviation calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the X axis.

tBodyGyroJerk.std.Y - The standard deviation calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the Y axis.

tBodyGyroJerk.std.Z - The standard deviation calculated on the body angular velocity derived in time to obtain the jerk signal on the Z axis.

fBodyAcc.std.X - The standard deviation calculated on the body accelerator which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the X axis.

fBodyAcc.std.Y - The standard deviation calculated on the body accelerator which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the Y axis.

fBodyAcc.std.Z - The standard deviation calculated on the body accelerator which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the Z axis.

fBodyAccJerk.std.X - The standard deviation calculated on the body linear acceleration which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the X axis.

fBodyAccJerk.std.Y - The standard deviation calculated on the body linear acceleration which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the Y axis.

fBodyAccJerk.std.Z - The standard deviation calculated on the body linear acceleration which applied the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to time domain signal on the Z axis.

# Variables

features - Stores value of each features read from features.txt file.  

mergedData - Stores data resulting from binding the rows of data stored in the test and train variables.  Further procesing the mergedData yields data resulting from extracting onl the columns storing means and standard deviation data.

testSubjects - Stores data read from the subject_test.txt file.

testLabel - Stores data read from the y_test.txt file.

testSet - Stores data read from the X_test.txt file.

test - Stores data resulting from binding the columns of the data stored in the testSubjects, testLabel, and testSet variables.

tidyDataSet - Stores data resulting from grouping by Subject and Activity and storing the mean of each groups data by column.

trainSubjects - Stores data read from the subject_train.txt file.

trainLabel - Stores data read from the y_train.txt file.

trainSet - Stores data read from the X_train.txt file.

train - Stored data resulting from binding the columns of the data stored in the trainSubjects, trainLabel, and trainSet variables.

