## Course project for get-data-032 Getting and Cleaning Data

To view the tidy data set, tidyDataSet.txt, generated by run_analysis.R, execute the following command:   
    
    read.table(”tidyDataSet.txt", header=TRUE)
    
##Analysis Process

The run_analysis.R script executes the following steps to read, cleanse, and transform the UCI HAR Dataset (training and test data) into a tidy data set:

1. Sets the working directory where the features data (features.txt) is stored.  Read the features.txt file and stores data into local variable features.

2. Sets the working directory where training data (subject_train.txt, X_train.txt, Y_train.txt) is stored.  Reads the subject_train file and stores data to local variable trainingSubjects.  Reads the Y_train file and stores data in local variable trainingLabel.  Reads the X_train file and stores data in the local variable trainingSet.  The trainSubjects, trainLabel, and trainSet are merged using cbind function at column level and data stored in local variable train.

3. Sets the working directory where test data (subject_test.txt, X_test.txt, Y_test.txt) is stored.  Reads the subject_test file and stores data to local variable testSubjects.  Reads the Y_train file and stores data in local variable testLabel.  Reads the X_train file and stores data in the local variable testSet.  The testSubjects, testLabel, and testSet are merged using cbind function at column level and data stored in local variable test.

4. The training and test data are merged using rbind function and stored in local variable mergedData. 

5. The columns comprising mergedData are renamed with appropriate labels.  The first column is labeled as Subject.  The second column is labeled as Activity.  The remaining columns are labeled using  make.name function which references data features variable.  Extraneous data in column names (i.e., "..") are removed using str_replace_all function.

6. The mergedData is filtered using a SELECT command to return only the columns storing mean and standard deviation data for each measurement.

7. The code representing activity are replaced with descriptive activity names defined in the activity_label.txt file.

8. A tidy data set using dplyr is created by grouping the mergedData by Subject and Activity. The grouped data is then summarized by calculating the mean each variable represented in columns. 

9. The tidy data set is written as a text file.

##Running Analysis

1.  The analysis script was written to run on Mac and Linux environments.  To run in Windows environments, the file path may require modification to execute propertly.

2.  All data files required to execute the run_analysis.R script are located in \UCI HAR Dataset directory which can be downloaded from this repository.

3.  After downloading the run_analysis.R script and data files to your local environment, the working directory (setWd functions) may require modification to reflect local file path/directory.

##Description

Please reference the CodeBook for details on variables represented as columns in the tidy data set.

